We've already talked about virtual private network connections, VPNs now VPNs typically run over the
public internet, and that means that we are subject to the bandwidth constraints and the potential
latency issues on the internet.
We can't control the internet.
We don't know from minute to minute, hour to hour what's going to happen.
We can get a good service provider, but still, sometimes there's a long way between us and our services
on IWC.
And that means somewhere along that path, we could have congestion or latency.
So one of the solutions to that is using Direct Connect, or D D X means that you have a private connection
into a WC.
That means it's not shared, it's not public, it's dedicated to you.
It's a connection all the way into your IWC data center and into your Amazon BPC.
So let's have a look at how we set this up.
So let's say we have a VPC with a couple of subnets and then we've got our corporate data center or
it could be your office.
Now in the middle, here is something called a direct connect location.
These are different to IWC regions and there's lots of these around the world, so that could well be
direct connect locations in the data center where your equipment is or somewhere nearby in your city.
In the direct connect location, IWC have a cage, so they have a rack full of their own equipment.
And then there's the customer or partner cage.
So either you have a rack with some equipment in that data center or you leverage an IWC partner.
Now both of these cages will have a router, so we got the direct connect endpoint on the IWC cage and
then in the customer or partner cage.
We have the customer or partner router and you must use certain types of connectors.
A port is actually allocated for you.
And then what you do is cross connects between the customer or partner around to an AWP.
We then have a customer outside, actually in your data center and direct connects in IWC, and we can
form the Direct Connect connection.
So now from your customer router, you need to have a physical connection into the customer or part
in the cage.
So that might be something you need to speak to your local ISP to get that connection from this point
into your data center.
Unless you happen to have all your equipment in a direct connect location, which can often be the case,
then from there we have the cross connecting to IWC and then a physical connection all the way into
an IWC region where your VP is.
That's a physical fiber connection, running even one or 10 gigabits per second.
Now, 100 gig has just been released recently for some locations.
If you want slower speeds, you can talk to a partner and they can give you speeds from 50 megabits
per second upwards.
So let's have a look at some of the benefits.
You've got private connectivity between IWC and your data center or office.
You get a consistent network experience.
You can control the network path.
It's not like on the internet where you just don't know what's happening.
That means you can increase the speed, improve latency, get better bandwidth and throughput for your
connection.
DEX can be quite expensive for many customers, but for those who transfer a lot of data from their
data center in the IWC, it can be cost effective.
Now, let's go a level deeper.
So we've got the same configuration here, and you can see some of the IWC services that are in the
public space at the bottom of this box.
So how do we provision connectivity across this private line?
Well, we have to create something called a private a is a virtual interface, a private.
This is the way that you connect into your VPC in the same region using a virtual gateway.
So there's a virtual private gateway attached to your VPC, and the private vef will send data across
the the connection into your BPC.
AVF is a virtual interface that uses eighty two point one CU virtual local area networks, VLANs and
a session as well.
Now what about connecting to the public space?
You don't connect to the public IWC services via a private vef.
Instead, you need a public face, a public that will allow you to connect to IWC services in the public
space that are in any IWC region.
But you can't connect to the internet via the public fifth.
Now what if you want to connect to multiple VCs in the same region?
Well, in that case, you have multiple virtual private gateways and multiple private lifts to connect
to each VPC.
You can also create something called a hosted vef, which means you can share a vest with another IWC
account as well, as I mentioned a bit earlier.
You can get lower speeds from APM partners, so these are partners in the IWC partner network, and
those speeds can then be from 50 to 500 megabits per second.
100 gig is also featuring in some select locations.
Those are the.
US direct connect locations, so that could be where you are, might not be probably won't be on the
exam yet.
It's very, very new.
Something that is really important for the exam is to remember that the connections are not encrypted.
You cannot encrypt at the connection, so there's no way that you can select the checkbox and enable
encryption in transit.
It just isn't a feature.
So what do you do if you want to encrypt your traffic?
Well, you can then create an IP SEC site to site VPN over the top of the connection.
So you have your direct connection and you're basically running a VPN over that connection.
So now your traffic is private.
It's on your private connection.
You've got the licensing and bandwidth features and you're also encrypting your traffic as well using
a VPN tunnel.
So that's really important to remember.
It does come up in a lot of exam questions.
Now that's it for the Cole Ferry around Direct Connect.
And in the next lesson, we're going to look at another feature called Direct Connect Gateway.